# Google Play Store Data Analysis App This is a Streamlit-based web application for analyzing Google Play Store app data. It allows users to sign up, log in, explore app data through visualizations, and manage their activity history. The app uses Firebase for authentication and Firestore for storing user data, with data processing and visualization powered by pandas, Plotly, and Streamlit. ## Features - **User Authentication**: Sign up and log in using Firebase Authentication. - **Data Exploration**: Filter and visualize Google Play Store app data (e.g., by category, rating, or genre) using interactive charts. - **Activity Management**: View and delete user activity records stored in Firestore. - **Data Source**: Analyzes a dataset (`gps.csv`) containing details like app names, categories, ratings, and Android versions. ## Project Structure - `main.py`: Entry point for the Streamlit app, handling navigation and page routing. - `home.py`: Displays the main dashboard with data filtering and visualization options. - `helper.py`: Contains utility functions for data processing and generating Plotly charts. - `activity.py`: Manages user activity history, allowing users to view and delete records. - `account.py`: Handles user authentication (signup/login) using Firebase. - `gps.csv`: Dataset containing Google Play Store app data. - `data-analysis---gps84-9724330a2ca9.json`: Firebase credentials file (not included in the repository for security). ## Prerequisites - Python 3.8+ - A Firebase project with Authentication and Firestore enabled. - A Firebase Web API key and service account credentials file. ## Setup Instructions 1. **Clone the Repository**: ```bash git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git cd your-repo-name ``` 2. **Install Dependencies**: Create a virtual environment and install the required packages: ```bash python -m venv venv source venv/bin/activate # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate pip install -r requirements.txt ``` 3. **Set Up Firebase**: - Create a Firebase project at [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/). - Enable Email/Password Authentication in the Authentication section. - Set up Firestore in the Database section. - Download your service account key (`your-firebase-credentials.json`) and place it in the project root. - Update `account.py` with your Firebase Web API key (replace the existing key in the `sign_up_with_email_and_password` and `sign_in_with_email_and_password` functions). 4. **Add the Dataset**: - Ensure `gps.csv` is in the project root. This file contains the Google Play Store data used by the app. 5. **Run the Application**: ```bash streamlit run main.py ``` The app will open in your default browser at `http://localhost:8501`. ## Requirements Install the following dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`. The `requirements.txt` file should include: ``` streamlit pandas plotly firebase-admin requests ``` Create the `requirements.txt` file with the above content if it doesn't exist. ## Usage 1. **Login/Signup**: Use the sidebar to sign up with a username, email, and password, or log in with existing credentials. 2. **Explore Data**: On the Home page, filter the dataset by category, rating, or other attributes, and view interactive visualizations. 3. **View Activity**: Check your activity history on the Activity page, where you can delete specific records. 4. **Sign Out**: Log out from the account page to end your session. ## Dataset The `gps.csv` file contains Google Play Store app data with columns such as: - App Name - Category - Rating - Type - Content For - Genre - Android Version The app uses this data for filtering and visualization. ## Notes - Ensure the Firebase credentials file is not committed to the repository. Add it to `.gitignore`: ```plaintext *.json ``` - The app assumes a Firestore collection named `all_data` for storing user activity. Ensure this collection exists or modify `activity.py` accordingly. - For production, consider securing the Firebase API key and credentials using environment variables. ## Contributing Contributions are welcome! Please: 1. Fork the repository. 2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`). 3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add your feature'`). 4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`). 5. Open a pull request. ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. ## Acknowledgments - Built with [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) for the web interface. - Uses [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) for authentication and data storage. - Data analysis powered by [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) and [Plotly](https://plotly.com/).
